# Helper Scripts

This directory contains several Python scripts that are used to manipulate and format the color theme of the VSCode extension.

## Installing Dependencies

The Python scripts in this directory require several libraries. Some of these libraries are part of the Python Standard Library, while others need to be installed separately. Here's how to install the necessary libraries:

```sh
pip install numpy matplotlib colour
```
Please ensure that you have pip installed and that it's updated to its latest version. If not, you can install it by following the instructions on the official pip installation guide.

Please note that this is a general guide. Depending on the user's environment, they might need to use pip3 instead of pip, or they might need to use a virtual environment.

## collect_colors.py

This script is used to collect and print unique colors from a given JSON file. It reads the JSON file, extracts unique colors, and prints them. It also provides an option to save the output to a file.

[collect_colors.py](./collect_colors.py)

## compare_jsons.py

This script is used to compare two JSON files and output the differences. It's specifically designed to compare original and streamlined theme files and extract changes related to hex colors. The changes are then formatted and output as a new JSON file named 'changes.json'.

[compare_jsons.py](./compare_jsons.py)

## format_theme.py

This script is used to streamline a color theme by finding similar colors and replacing them with a representative color. It reads a JSON file, extracts unique colors, finds similar colors, and replaces the original colors with the representative colors. The output is then printed and can be optionally saved to a file.

[format_theme.py](./format_theme.py)

## output/

This directory contains the output files generated by the helper scripts. It includes 'streamlined_theme.json', which is the result of streamlining the original theme, and 'xkcd_color_names.json', which maps hex color codes to xkcd color names.

[output/](./output/)

## working_version/

This directory contains the working version of the original theme file.

[working_version/](./working_version/)

### SCRIPTS MAY OR MAY NOT WORK AS INTENDED. USE AT YOUR OWN RISK.
```